All right it's time to put it all together.
In the previous screencast we built a Bakan that allowed us to create and read and delete specific to
use what I have in the background is simply just this server that starting on 3000 one.
And I've gone back and started our server on localhost 3000.
This is where we left off on the front end.
What we need to do now is instead of storing to do's in memory we need to connect our front and application
to our back and application.
And in order to do that we need to make some Ajax requests from localhost 3000 to localhost 3000.
And what this means we're going to run some asynchronous code which really important to understand is
that Rydex does not have any built in support for our actions to be asynchronous.
Our actions are always objects.
While that's a little bit of a gotcha there is a way to dispatch asynchronous actions but to do that
we need to introduce a little bit of redux middleware the tool that we're going to be using is called
the redux Thuc.
So we're going to NPM install redux Thuc and this allows us to very easily create asynchronous actions.
We can go take a look at Reebok's bank because you may be hearing this word thunk and wondering just
what the idea is here.
What's really Naysmith redux thunk is the documentation is quite good.
So we can see what is a funk I think is a function that wraps in expression to delay its evaluation.
What we're gonna do here is a wait until an AJAX call has finished to then dispatch an action as opposed
to just dispatching right away.
We're going to simply wait until an asynchronous action has finished.
In our case in AJAX call and when it's done we're then going to dispatch some kind of action.
So we're going to have to make some separate functions that are asynchronous to handle these operations
to get started.
We simply have to install redux stunk and VM install Reducto.
So back over here we've installed redux dunk and I'm going to open this up in sublime inside of sublime
me to first start in our index database.
The first thing I want to do is import thunk from redux Thuc.
The main idea here is that redux dunk allows us to write action creators that return a function instead
of an action.
I think in this case delays dispatch so that we can wait until some asynchronous action has completed
to then dispatch an action we previously saw that action creators are just simple functions that return
an object or some kind of action.
But what we're going to do is use redux thunk so that we can instead turn a function which delays the
dispatch of some action.
It's a little bit tricky to wrap your head around but we'll see this in code and it should make a little
bit more sense.
So we're going to import thunk and then we're going to tell our store about that middleware in order
to do that we need to bring in a couple more things from redox.
We're going to bring in Apply middleware and we're going to bring in compose and apply middleware is
going to allow us to use redux middleware.
Specifically I think the second parameter to create store is a combination of middleware that we're
using.
So we are going to use the compose function to bring that all together.
The first thing that we want to passen to compose is apply middleware and apply middleware is a function
that accepts some kind of middleware.
In our case the bug we're going to saved us and that way when we create our store we're going to use
the root reducer and then we're going to compose all the middleware together into one function.
We're going to use the redux dev tools and we're going to use redux Thomke And that's really all we
need to do inside of our index tracks the rest of the work actually happens inside of our action creators.
And this is where it gets a little bit tricky.
What we're going to do is export some asynchronous functions we're going to start by not exporting these
action creators these action creators right here are going to be very simple.
We're actually going to rename them.
Let's call this one handle and that's going to take some kind of task.
We'll call this handle remove and then we're going to make one more for actually getting all of our
to do this we'll call that handle to use and this will dispatch in action with a type of get to do's
and some kind of data that we get back from our backend.
And if we want to do that we have to make sure we also make a new action type forget to do this.
This right here will retrieve all the traduce.
This will remove a single one and this will add a single one.
But you might be wondering well how are we going to use these action creators.
Well these are not actually the functions that we're going to export the functions that we're going
to export are going to use redux Thuc.
So let's see how that works.
We're going to start by exporting a function called get to use and this is going to accept no parameters
yet.
But instead of returning an object it's going to return a function.
This function is going to accept a parameter called dispatch.
You'll see the syntax a little bit less frequently.
So we're going to use yes 2015 aero functions.
And this is what it looks like inside of here.
We are going to run some kind of AJAX call.
So we're going to use fetch.
We're going to fetch SCDP colon slash slash localhost slash API slash to do this and once we're done
with this AJAX call we're going to run them and we're going to get back some response and convert that
to Jason.
But we're going to do with the next piece of data that's been converted to Jaison is dispatch a function.
We're going to dispatch handle to do's and handle to Doo's accepts some information.
And if anything goes wrong it would be really good to have a nice way to handle errors.
But all I want to do here is cancelled out log.
Something went wrong and passing that error here we should really be dispatching something.
But I'm going to keep it real simple just for some error handling right now.
So what did we just do here.
We made a function that is an action creator except we thought that action creators normally return
objects.
But what is this one returning it's returning a function and this function will execute an asynchronous
action.
And once that asynchronous action is completed we'll dispatch an action creator the ones that were used
to that just return an object.
So this is what it would look like to get to do.
Let's add a couple other for adding to do's and for room with it.
So we're going to export a function we'll call this have to do.
This is going to take in some kind of task.
We're going to use these functions inside of our re-act components.
That's what we're going to connect redux with react.
So we're going to once again return dispatch and inside of here we're going to return the results of
fetch.
But where are we going now.
What's same place each TDP local host and it looks like I forgot the port number here that's three thousand
and one local host 3000 in one slash API I-Slash to use.
But here we have to pass in a bit more information.
We want a method of post.
We want to pass in the correct headers.
So we'll use some new headers and inside of here we want to make sure that we pass in a letter of content
type and a value of application slash Jason I'm using that here.
But if you want to keep it simpler you could use X but you should see how fecche works.
And then we want to make sure that we pass in some kind of body.
So we're going to string ify an object with a key of task and the value of task.
This is we're going to be sending to the server.
And when this is all done we're going to get back some data that we're going to convert to Jason.
And when that has finished we're going to dispatch an action.
So we're going to get some data back and we are going to dispatch the handle and action this handle
an action is very simple.
It's going to go right to our producer.
It's going to trigger ad to do with whatever task we pass in.
Well in this case when I want to call that task and I want to call it something like to do so we'll
save that and right here we're going to pass in very simply whatever we've gotten from our server that
data right here.
If anything goes wrong we'll simply just cancel that log.
Something went wrong and we'll get that there.
So what we're doing here is in our re-act component we need to do is added We're going to wait until
an AJAX call has finished when that AJAX call has finished we're going to go to our producer with that
new to do that we made that we got back from the server and then we're going to go back to Mabuti to
process.
And we're going to update our Riak component.
So once again we'll set a couple of breakpoints to see how this all works.
But let's write one more function call that removed to do.
This is going to accept some kind of ID.
And once again this is an asynchronous action because removing it requires going to the back end and
returning the result of some AJAX call.
So once again we want to go actually use template strings here because we're going to go to a local
host 3000 slash API slash use and we're going to get whatever that ideas once again what method do we
want here we want to specify the each the verb of delete and when that's done just like we saw before.
We're going to get back some response.
Convert that to Jason and then we're going to get back some data and we'll dispatch the result of the
handle the move function with the id pass to it.
And I'll just grab this last handle right here.
What we've done here is created three action creators that don't return objects at they return functions.
And what's going to happen is we're going to use add to do remove to do and get to use inside of our
re-act component.
And when our real component triggers these functions we're going to run these asynchronous calls and
then we're going to dispatch our good old action creators.
Remember here is where we're actually going to return information that go to our producer.
So let's go to our producer for a second inside of our reproducer things look a little bit different.
We're not going to need an idea of zero because Mongoose is going to keep track of ideas.
We also want to make sure we bring in get to do our initial state is going to start as an empty array
because we're not going to go make in Egypt's request from our producer.
We'll see how to get that started in a bit.
But we're going to first make sure we have these an action type for to do.
And when that happens we're simply going to return whatever we had in steede along with two dues which
comes in as action.
What we all remember we pass in inside of our action creators forget to use some kind of data.
So we will do action data that looks good.
What's the next thing we want to think about when we add a to do we don't really have to worry about
incrementing IDs or anything like that.
So we're just going to do something very similar.
We're going to return whatever was in state and our two Dewes will be whatever we had before along with
what we got back from that specific to do this ranger action that to do for a move to do.
Things are going to be very similar except we want to be a little bit careful with Mongo.
We get an ID that comes in as underscore ID so I want to make sure that we see that right there so right
now are reducer is going to have the ability to get to use to add to do's and removed to do this.
But when do we actually start using these specific functions while all the fun begins in our To Do list.
Yes.
What we want to do right off the bat is make sure that we get our second function get to do from here.
Remember these right here all our folks if we take a quick look side by side with our action creators
we can see these functions right over here.
Go look at our To Do list add to do remove to do and get to use.
These are all our folks.
These are all asynchronous operations right now that at the end of the day dispatch an action to take
us to the reducer.
So we're going to make sure that we do in our To Do list as well as make sure that we bring in get to
do those on props.
Now what we want to think about is what this component loads we want to go to the database and get all
of our to do.
So we're going to add the lifecycle method of component did mount and when this happens we are going
to run this not props that get to do this and you may be wondering well what about the doc then what
about all the asynchronous operation.
Well we don't have to do that here because when we run get to do is we're going to go to our action
creator.
We're going to run get to use.
We're going to make an Ajax request and then we're going to dispatch handle to Doo's with whatever data
we got back inside of our To Do list.
We also want to make sure that we fix a couple of things.
Remember everything is coming in as underscore ID and our key can be that specific ID.
We don't have to worry that an index anymore since we're using Mongo for our database.
So let's see this now and let's go see what's happening in the browser.
We're going to go start the server up and see how many bugs we've made.
It's a start.
This will give that second.
And let's see if everything's working as planned or if there are some things that we forgot about what
you want to make sure that you have with asynchronous actions.
It's just the ability to dispatch thanks.
Looks like a syntax error and action creators just 46.
So let's head over to action creators 46 don't ever want a semi-colon.
Who is one to make sure we change this with a dot.
Let's go see that right.
Looks like we're running something.
Let's go refresh this right here.
And what's interesting to know is code well where did that come from.
Remember in the last video on the back end we actually made this right here.
So what I'm going to do is log my SNL HGP requests and I'm going to refresh the page and when the page
loads it finishes loading this race here localhost three thousand one slash to do this.
If I look at the response well that's just the information right there on the page.
But this right here is the API call that we make to get back all of those to use.
Well what about adding it to do.
Let's try to always keep our chrome dev tools open.
Let's try to add it to do shouldn't be called added to this but we can fix that.
So let's fix a typo let's go at to do.
And notice here that fetched finish loading options.
If you remember how course works we send a very quick request to make sure that we can actually make
a corps request to that domain.
Otherwise we'll get an issue with the same origin policy and inside of action creators 37 this is the
actual Ajax request that's being made.
If I refresh the page we can see right here that this is still being persisted.
We're using a database for all of this information.
So we'll all do right now is remove one of these and it looks like we've removed it successfully when
our first page.
I still have fix that typo so let's add it to do and we'll say go over all this code and we'll add that
to do.
And notice here we me that Ajax request to get that information.
If we take a look on the back end we can actually see all these requests that are coming in all these
options or we call preflight requests to make sure that they are authorized and then we've deleted as
well.
And getting one more time inserting we're finding and modifying this is exactly what we want to do to
wire everything backup.
Now there's a lot of code that we've written.
So let's go take a step back and see how we put it all together.
When you start working with a backend you need to communicate to that back and we got to use AJAX.
And when you're using AJAX you're dealing with asynchronous code and in the confines of redux we can't
actually write action creators.
That are not synchronous redux only supports action creators that are synchronous out of the box in
order to allow for asynchronous action creators or in order to allow an action creator to not return
an object but a function.
We need to use redux funk we need to delay the evaluation of some expression.
In this case delaying the dispatch we're going to wait until a function finishes before we dispatch.
What I'll do next is set some breakpoints but I want to walk through the code first in our index that
yes we import func and we compose all of our middleware that includes the redux dev tools.
Notice you were still using Riak router.
We've wrapped everything all together inside of my route reducer I change things around a little bit.
I don't have to worry about keeping track of some ID because the back end is going to do that and I
don't have to worry about adding to Dewes by managing IDs or anything.
All I do is grab whatever comes in from that action.
So I'll start here by putting a debugger inside of the root reducer.
The next thing I do in my to do list and with closes for a second so that I don't get too many debuggers
inside of the to do list.
We're going to start by grabbing some redux.
So I'll throw a debugger here.
We're then going to render some information other debuggers here.
And let's go see how information flows throughout our application inside of my action readers I'll do
the same exact thing for each one of these.
I'll go put a debugger so we can see exactly how everything flows in our application.
It's going to be a lot of debuggers but you can understand how data flows in an application with redux
you're in great shape.
So let's go back and let's go to localhost 3000.
I'm going to keep my dev tools open and we're going to start by refreshing the page.
Now the first place we go to is always the root reducer.
No asynchronous actions have happened yet.
Redux always has the dispatch this in it.
Where do we go next.
We always go back to maps that props our initial state doesn't have to do from the back end yet.
What we want to do first is render the component and then when that component mounts we're going to
trigger get to do X and get to Doo's is going to run this asynchronous operation.
And when this asynchronous operation is done we're going to dispatch handle to do this.
And when we dispatch handle to notice we get back this data right here.
And this data refers to what we're getting back from the backend.
What we're going to do then is dispatch an action of get to use that's going to take us back to the
reducer and it's going to put us right back here in this return statement.
And once we return this information where do we go.
It's the same old cycle as before.
Back into maps data props with the new data back into render and then we render components on the page.
A lot of fun stuff.
Let's do it again refresh the page.
The first place we go to as always is the reducer.
We need some initial state.
None of these action types are going to be triggered so we're going to default to our original state.
We're then going to go back to map state to prop's as we always do with some default state which is
an array with nothing in it.
We're then going to go back to render and when we render we're going to immediately trigger component
did mount when component did mount runs this is a reactive lifecycle method.
It's going to trigger this thought process that get to well what does get to do is it is an action creator
that returns a function.
It is a think.
And when this action creator finishes an asynchronous action it's going to dispatch a function called
handle to do is remember whenever we dispatch we always return an object.
And what are we returning here.
An object with the type of get to use the second that we dispatch where do we go we always go back to
the reproducer all built upon itself.
Except this time we have get to do this which is going to take whatever was in state and the two days
that we got back from the API we're going to go back to maps the props we're going to render the component
again with our to use.
All right let's do it again.
How about adding it to do.
When I click add it to do we're going to render again because of the Riak router.
When I type in the task of awesome let's add that to do when I add that to do we go run this ad to do
function.
This is going to dispatch in action.
It's going to dispatch the action.
That allows me to handle add and notice those additional debuggers because the Riak router is changing
the page.
So inside handle I get back that new to do that I need.
This is what my back end is responding.
I go back to the root reducer.
I go back to add to do and all over again nafs the props render the component.
And here we go.
We have that new one right there.
How about deleting.
When I delete I go to remove to do and I get the ID.
How am I getting that idea.
Remember I've binded that correctly in my re-act component inside of here.
Have binded or bound the correct ID.
We then go back to handle remove when that's done we go back to our root reducer.
And finally we're going to hit remove to do.
We're going to go back to maps the props we're going to render the component again.
We're going to see it without that specific to do.
So this is how we can put everything together.
There are a lot of moving parts but the more that you can set the buggers and step through each part
of the application the more you're going to understand how it works.
The most important thing to understand about what we've done so far is that by default redux does not
allow action creators to return anything that's not an object.
We always have to dispatch objects but when we use redux Thomke our action creators can return functions
because we want the function to delay the execution of dispatching.
We don't want to dispatch right away.
Wait until it asynchronous operation has finished and then we can dispatch that same old object that
we're used to every time.
So when you need redox to run some kind of asynchronous operation you have to make sure to use some
kind of middleware redux think is a very popular one redux saga is another one as well.
So we'll stop here take a look at this code write it yourself.
Some debuggers step through and you'll master how data flows through a full stack application with react
relax and no decken and the Riak router.
I'll see you in the next contest.